In the final tutorial on reloading weapons, let's take a look at the arsenal.
The first thing we will do is create an additional delegate that will notify the weapon component that we are out of ammo.
Let's call the signature for the delegate FOnClipEmpty. We now have a weapon
reloading itself if the cartridges in the clip run out. With this approach, for example, we
will not play the reload animation. Let's replace ChangeClip with a call to the delegate in the place where
we reduce the number of cartridges in the DecreaseAmmo function and also make the ChangeClip function public.
That is, the weapon component will call this function if reloading is needed. And let's
add an additional function called CanReload. It will determine whether the given weapon can do
reloading in principle. A situation is possible when the clip is full, or their number is zero.
Therefore, this function will return true when CurrentAmmo.Bullets <DefaultAmmo.Bullets && CurrentAmmo.Clips> 0
Since our ChangeClip has become a public function, let's change the logic a little.
Let's remove the updates to the number of bullets to the very bottom and check that if the number of clips we have is zero,
then we will print some warning message and immediately exit the function.
Let's add a similar check for the DecreaseAmmo function. We have it protected, but it certainly won't get any worse.
In this function, we need to check the number of bullets, so we replace clips with bullets
and the message text with clip is empty.
Move to the weapon component class. Let's add two additional functions to the private section.
The first of these will be a callback to our OnEmptyClip delegate.
And add the second one for convenience, let's call it ChangeClip. We'll put all the reloading logic into it
and call it if the user wants to
recharge, or our OnEmptyClip delegate has been called. Add a body for each function.
And after spawning the weapon, we can subscribe to the OnEmptyClip delegate.
We transfer all the logic from the reload function to ChangeClip.
And we call ChangeClip when the user requests a reload, or when the weapon is notified that the clip is empty.
As soon as we start reloading, we must stop firing
and then call the ChangeClip function.
And we can add the CanReload weapon function to the CanReload weapon component check.
Add one more condition: CurrentWeapon-> CanReload.
All is ready. We compile the project.
We start the game. We will shoot all the ammunition.
Callback automatically comes - OnEmptyClip. The animation starts.
And also, if the clip is full, then when you press the R button, reloading does not work for us. And if they made one shot,
then the clip is no longer full and reloading using the R key works. And the launcher will reload
every time, because we have one cartridge installed in the clip.
We have a small bug. Let's consider the following situation. Let's say we shoot the entire clip and only one cartridge remains in the store.
After that we start shooting and shooting continues during reloading.
Why is this happening? Let's get a look.
So we have one cartridge left. We start shooting. We shoot the MakeShot and also start the timer.
We shoot one round. The DecreaseAmmo function is called.
Inside this function, the number of cartridges becomes zero and we get to the point
where the OnClipEmpty delegate is called. Then recharge starts.
Reloading updates the number of cartridges immediately and by the time the timer expires, our magazine is no longer empty.
Therefore, at this point in the program, we can add a call to the StopFire function, which is redefined in the rifle class
and our timer will stop. But that's not all. We also need to reverse the order of the timer setting call and
the MakeShot function call. If this is not done, then at that point in the call to the StopFire function we simply will not have a valid TimerHandle.
We start the game. We leave one cartridge in the clip.
We shoot this cartridge. Do not release the mouse button. Our timer has stopped. Everything now works correctly.